Bill Richards is from the Talawa tribe that lives in the northwestern area of the United States.
He and others from his tribe knew there was a creator, but did not yet know him personally.
Telleha, see who she is, how are you?
Nestling.
Talawa, Dini, howin' quit.
Just me, Nestling.
I was born in the government hospital on the Hooper Reservation.
I am an enrolled member of the Talawa tribe.
For many years, I served as tribal chairman, which some people know as chief or headman,
as did my father and grandfather.
The word Talawa means people to the north,
or ancestral territories straddles the northern California and southern Oregon mollors.
On my early years, I considered it a good, fun place to grow up in.
During the summer, we have a fish run down here that's very important to us.
It's what we call a spelt run.
We have the yoke and the deer.
We had a good life here.
We lived off the land.
We had salmon and the rivers.
We had the berries, the acorns.
I think we needed what's provided for us here by our creator.
I went to school and spent forever, and right out of high school, I joined the military service.
In the military, it was eye-opening for me when I was transferred to the East Coast.
Their prejudice was right out in the open.
And that was really very surprising to me that it could be that strong of prejudice.
About that time I met Viola.
My wife, we've been married.
This September will be 55 years.
Well, I started studying after Viola had been studying for a number of weeks.
We started a weekly Bible study, and I was engaging that for quite some time.
And then one of the sisters seeing my husband that he was here.
And she started talking to him pretty soon.
He started talking again, and then it got to the table, and we started a study.
And he wasn't through that.
You know, the more I studied, the more knowledge the energy it got.
And studying the Bible early on, it wasn't too bad.
It went to community.
But when we started on a regular basis, then it interfered with me and some of the meetings here.
And local meetings came on a certain night in New Zealand, when we had the Bible study.
One of the things that they really had a hard time adjusting to was death,
because it showed honor to the person that was their last statement in life.
And that was to have a funeral.
We could not always attend, but we showed in other ways that we did care.
And we would go to the fellowship gathering after the funeral to show our support.
Holidays were an extremely difficult challenge because it was a family gathering time.
It was hard to make those adjustments and explain to our family.
We progressed from there until our baptism.
And she said, I am ready to get baptized.
And so I said, well, I am ready to.
So we got baptized together.
I was baptized at 71 years of age.
Sometimes I would go to an convention and I would look around and see how many Native Americans I could pinpoint.
You know, it wasn't very many.
I have been telling Brother Dave that, hey, I am not seeing too many Native Americans.
And he said, well, you'd better get busy and start teaching them.
And he's right.
This day, you know, if I can reach a Native American, then that's what I want to do, or anybody else.
Many people in our Native identity today carries an eagle feather.
And it's just a symbol of being protected, but they didn't know his name.
They called him Creator.
And now I share with some of the ones and the responsive they listen.
And I said, I know his name.
And I told him it was Jehovah.
I have a special feeling for the Houndquit community cemetery down here,
because I'm looking at the names and all that.
You know, I realized that my mother and father are both buried there.
The biggest hope now, and Dave and Kim really expanded well to me that.
You're going to see them again.
That's the big hope.
Another blessing is our children.
They have been attending the memorial, and then other special talks.
You know, we have them join us, and that definitely is a blessing.
I have received many blessings.
I have a better relationship with my wife.
I even take my shoes off when I come into the house.
I have many meaningful relationships within the congregation.
And I get to teach other Native to serve Jehovah.
Bible truth appeals to people from all backgrounds.
In Brother Richard's case, he left his post as chief and tribal chairman
when he dedicated himself to God.